# introduction 
this documents will have the necessary work break-downs that helps to manage the task that at hands.

TOC 

* [Viewer : Snappiness of layout manager changes is too slow](#JIRA_CODE-3713)

## Viewer : Snappiness of layout manager changes is too slow {#JIRA_CODE-3713}


description:

first we have some doubt as to how that is feasible.

> There are several questions need to be taken into account
Will all the layout be buffered?
How to handle the configuration that is pertaining to slicing building and Pivot tables?
how do we manage the layout when the target layout is not selected? How can we visually show the effect of the layout under modification.
and below are the considerations behind the questions.
"Will all the layout be buffered?" the reason is that if we only cache one layout, how can we know which layout to be buffered, we can not predicate the user's next layout selection. it may well ended that the layout buffered is not the one user would be picking.
"Configuration that is pertaining to Pivot table", the quesion is because IIRC, that the data slicing and the pivot table provider cannot be cached, which implies that context switching in terms of data can not be optimized away, however, need to do more investigation in order to find out.
"How to visually show the modification to the buffered layout", without selecting the target layout, how can we visualize the modification? Do we need to provide a sandbox (like with a scaled-down screen designed specially for the modificaition)?

then Adriana replies with the following. 

> One possible option to decrese the slowness when flipping between layouts is to have 'buffered' layouts in the background in a separate layout manger not visible so the buffered layout is presented when requested instead of dispose/re-create layout on every switch.
As part of this we should also tackle the fact we can't delete/revert a layout unless is selected since the original reason for doing that is we can't delete columnconfig overrides unless a layout is loaded. The 'buffered' approach means the layouts will be loaded in the background so we have acces to the config inforamtion we need to remove.
> Not sure how we 'hide' the not visible layouts but it might be just controlling the Visibility flag might do.

while , as to clarify, here is my reply on top of her replies

> hm, so that what we will need to create is a hot-hot copies of layout, which all resides on memory, and when switching the layout, replace one set of Layout (documents sets) with another.
Besides the Data feed off, there are also one particular piece that we need to switch (no sure how long that might be taking) - the arrangement of the documents - currently the Arrangement has no way but deserialize/serialize pair on the DevExpress dock layout manage.r
will do some test tomorrow to see if it is possbile, the biggest worries here is the memory footprint, hoping it won't bloat the memory for unnecessary big.

with that regard, here is what she said.

> I don't see why we need to switch off the Arrangement serialization on changing layout since that is setup to be done only if the layout is selected and visible so it will automatically stop once the layout is invisible.

now, things sounds clear.  what is left to be done now:

### Idea
the general idea is simple, two-fold

1. first load the default layout
2. wires the loaded default layout as the selected layout
2. As a task continuation, load the rest layouts in a background thread 
3. cache the result of layout into memory  (do we need some sort of disk-backed storage to further cut down the memory footprint) 
4. now that when we change layout, the layout shall be write-through back, and the in memory parts shall be brought back in sync

### how to tackle it 
1. first we need create a in-memory collection for all the layouts, (we mayneed the ability to acess the concurrently list) 
2. ensuing/coming to above, do you need a special layout bag to holds Layouts??
2. when every things is ready in the memory, we have to be able to switch between layout
3. we may need to revamp the LayoutProvider, which nows works against the config server directly
4. the memory keeps growing, even switching to an already loaded layouts.

### tasks

1. the CacheManager
2. UI Layout Marshaller (whose purpose is to flatten/iron out the spike at changing the selected layout)
3. LayoutItemViewModel (which is now the ViewModel for one cached DockLayoutManager and its LayoutViewModel)
4. LayoutItemViewModelDateTemplate and the changes in the DataViewLayoutView.xml to show the LayoutItemViewModel in ItemsControl
5. LayoutManagerViewModel (smart initial loading strategy to reduce initial loading cost)
1. handle cache miss
2. store the LFU's use count somewhere
5. Create a UiMarshalOption (done)
3. load the default and capacity -1 most frequently used items.
1. synchronize the LFU reports with the layout manager so that it can handles situation like layout renaming, layout new, and layout removing

and result

1. Switching between Layout in the cache is responded almost instanenous
2. start time do not increase by a huge margin

what need to be done

2. handle the dispose the swapped out items.
3. verify and check existing function shall still works.
4. refactoring (there sounds a lot refactoring work is needed)..


### the memory footprint issues 

observed situation, there are great chance of risk of Memory footprint. 


what I have observed is as follow

1. it start up to consume at least 280MB memory 
2. once you switch to a new layout, without dispose the old Documents, it increase the memory more like 50MB each time?
3. the initial loading is taken too much time.. you might be watching too much logs from the output ... (don't know if we can control distribute the risk of high volumnes by a more controlled ..)


### what has been realized 
the following are actually been executed. 

1. with Dispatch to evenly distribute the layout tasks
  1. Loading Layouts documents
  2. restore layout arrangement
2. pre-load loads of (Configurable) number of layout on Program Starts.
3. even the Dispose method are also executed in a delayed fashion ...

## the known subclass to the DocumentContentView class 
there are some classes to the subclass of the DocumentContentView class, they are 

* HierarchyViewModel
* ResultViewModel
* ExCashViewModel
* TotalWidgetViewModel


the super class to the HierarchyViewModel is _ResultsViewModel_

## DataProvider & ResultProvider


the data is provided by the DataProvider, the class hierarchy is as such  

```
internal class DataProvider : FabricTableProvider
{
...
}
```


the data provider is wrapped in a table provider, while there is also a class called "QueryResultsProvider" which accepts a Generic Paramter of type "DataProvider"

```
    internal class QueryResultsProvider<T> : ResultsProvider<T>, IQueryResultsProvider
        where T : FabricTableProvider
        {
        ...
        }
```

the results provider has the following dimension in terms of code 

* Slices
* Measures
* RowAxis
* ColumnAxis

it extract the requeset dimension from the DataFilter, and it has the (in code QueryResultProvider.cs file) 

```
                Provider.Stop();

                var request = AggregatedDataRequestExtension.AggregatedDataRequest(
                    GetColumnAxis(),
                    GetRowAxis(),
                    GetSlices(),
                    GetMeasures(),
                    GetContextValues());

                Provider.Request = request;
                Provider.Start();

```

and the AggregateDataRequest is simply implemented to return a `AggregatedDataRequest`, check `AggregatedDataRequestExtension.AggregateDataRequest` for details.


beside the AggregatedDataRequest that is acceptted by teh DataProvider, there are also a "Specifier" such as shown in the code below.  

```
            var specifier = new BasicRequestSpecifier();
            specifier.AddField("Source", specifierName, true);
            Specifier = specifier.ToString(); 
```


## How the DataFilter delegate the job to IQueryResultProvider


IDataViewerService take a circous route and finally updated the QueryResultsProvider.ApplyFilter method.

Hard to tell where the bottleneck is.




## Dynamic proxy/stub study 
the dynamic/stub is essential in implementing the things like "Castle" which is a library that generate dynamically the stubs, and as well the Mock system, where you can easily create a mock object without having to create some classes that inherits from a interface or something.

## Dispatcher.PushFrame

http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.threading.dispatcher.pushframe(v=vs.110).aspx

Dispatcher.PushFrame Method

the method that are important in regards to the Dispatcher.PushFrame is related here in this 

```
[SecurityPermissionAttribute(SecurityAction.Demand, Flags = SecurityPermissionFlag.UnmanagedCode)]
public void DoEvents()
{
    DispatcherFrame frame = new DispatcherFrame();
    Dispatcher.CurrentDispatcher.BeginInvoke(DispatcherPriority.Background,
        new DispatcherOperationCallback(ExitFrame), frame);
    Dispatcher.PushFrame(frame);
}

public object ExitFrame(object f)
{
    ((DispatcherFrame)f).Continue = false;
    return null;
}
```

where it often used internally as the inner-loop of the event handling

## the pipes and Filters Pattern
there is a Pipes and Filtersed Pattern based on the new Async/Await pattern designs.....

the information is from the Pipes and Filters Pattern from the Defvelopers Network.  

References: [Pipes and Filters Pattern](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn568100.aspx)

##  Compute Resource Consolidation Pattern

> Consolidate multiple tasks or operations into a single computational unit. This pattern can increase compute resource utilization, and reduce the costs and management overhead associated with performing compute processing in cloud-hosted applications.

the use of this pattern is to consolidte multiople task into one task and we propagate the exception, tasks starts and stop into one task which we can easily manage and manipulate. 

## Productivity -  Visual Studio 2010 Xaml editor awkward intellisense

Basically, in the Wpf editor, we have this :
```
<TextBox x:
```
then you can type in something, like belowl 

```
<TextBox x:Name="_"
```


where the `_` represent the currrent cursor location. but instead it6 create something like below 

```
 <TextBox x:Name="textbox
          _"
```

1 Type your XAML tag and name it. (At this point your cursor is inside the quotation marks of the attribute.)
2 Press Ctrl-Shift-R to start macro recording.
3 Press End, and then Enter. (Now your cursor is where you want it to be.)
4 Press Ctrl-Shift-R again to stop macro recording.

If you follow the steps above, Visual Studio will have generated the following macro code, which you can see if you press Alt-F8 and open RecordingModule.TemporaryMacro:

```
DTE.ActiveDocument.Selection.EndOfLine()
DTE.ActiveDocument.Selection.NewLine()
```

You can now run this macro with Ctrl-Shift-P, but it's only a temporary macro at this point. You should save it and assign it to a keyboard shortcut.

1 Open Macro Explorer (Alt-F8).
2 Find TemporaryMacro under MyMacros | RecordingModule, and rename it. Maybe even move it out of RecordingModule to a different module too.
3 Open the Tools menu and go to Options, Environment, Keyboard.
4 Type the name of your macro under "Show commands containing".
5 Select your macro and assign it shortcut key(s). (I chose Ctrl-Enter.)

So now, instead of moving your hand to press End and then Enter, you can just press Ctrl-Enter.

I also recorded another macro that moves to the end of the line and types " />" for me, and attached that to Ctrl-/. The code VS generates looks like this:

```
DTE.ActiveDocument.Selection.EndOfLine()
DTE.ActiveDocument.Selection.Text = " />"
DTE.ActiveDocument.Selection.NewLine()
```

An alternative to all these macros is to turn off the automatic quotes. Open the Tools menu and go to Options, Text Editor, XAML, Miscellaneous. Uncheck the option for auto-inserting attribute quotes. Then it won't add the ending quote for you, and you won't have to use the arrow keys or the End key (although you will have to type the ending quote now, of course).
Reference: 

[Visual Studio 2010 XAML Editor awkward IntelliSense?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4976952/visual-studio-2010-xaml-editor-awkward-intellisense)


## Visual Studio 2010 Macro Problem - Quit working all together
the problem is that the windows update has remove the ability from the Visual studio executing the COM macros. 

> Update (February 18): To restore Visual Studio 2010 macros functionality without removing Windows updates, you can add the AllowDComReflection configuration setting to vsmsvr10.exe.config, vsaenv10.exe.config and devenv.exe.config files (note, you need to run your editor with admin rights for correct modification of these files):

```
<configuration>
    <runtime>
        <AllowDComReflection enabled="true"/>
```

References:  
[Visual Studio 2010 Macro problem - Quit Working all together](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3714233/visual-studio-2010-macro-problem-quit-working-all-together)
[Visual Studio 2010 Macros Stop Working after February 2014 Windows Update](http://visualstudioextensions.vlasovstudio.com/2014/02/13/visual-studio-2010-macros-stop-working-after-february-2014-windows-update/)



## Square bracket in the Visual Basic

the Square bracket in Visual basic is used for 

> The square brackets just allow you to use keywords as identifiers.

Refernces: 
[Square Brackets Around variable Names](http://forums.asp.net/t/1956066.aspx?Square+Brackets+Around+variable+Names)

## the Object Array notation 

the Object array notation in the Visual Basic language is 

```
Object()
```

where if possilbe you can as well use the Visual Basic IEnumerable, such as the following. 

```
IEnumerable(Of Type)
```

## how to break out of the Visual Basic Sub 
you can exit the Visual Basic Sub by the following commands

```
Exit sub
```

such as

```
if projectsObject.Length = 0 Then
  Exit Sub
End If
```

## how to concatenate two strings in Visual basic
you can concatenate two strings by the operator `&`

such as 

```
If Not tlbimPath Is Nothihng Then
    sdkDirectory = CStr(tlbimpPath.GetValue("SDKInstallRootv2.0", "") & "Bin"
End If
```


## Visual Basic Array starts from index `1`

the started index of the Visual BAsic Array starts at the index `1`;

```
if (Typeof CodeElement Is CodeNamespace) Then
   codeElement = CType(codeElement, CodeNamespace).Memebers.Item(1)
End If
```

## How to define a const in Visual Basic
you can define a constant in Visual Basic by the following statement.

```
Const passedString As String = "Passed"
```


## the EnvDTE.TextDocument and the EnvDTE.Document

you can use the EnvDTE.ActiveDocument to create new document, you can choose which one to create, one is `EnvDTE.TextDocument` and the other is `EnvDTE.Document`

here is an example of how to use it 

```
Ctype(DTE.ActiveDOcuments.Object("TextDocument"), TextDocument)
```


## Visual Basic how to return value from a Function
you can return from a function by the following syntax

```
    Function IndentLevel(ByVal editPoint As EnvDTE.EditPoint) As Long
        Dim lastLine As Long

        Do While True
            lastLine = editPoint.Line
            editPoint.StartOfLine()
            SkipSpaceRight(editPoint)

            If editPoint.Line <> lastLine Then
                ' empty line
                editPoint.LineUp(2)
            ElseIf editPoint.LineCharOffset = editPoint.LineLength + 1 Then
                ' line with only spaces and/or tabs
                editPoint.LineUp()
            Else
                IndentLevel = editPoint.DisplayColumn
                Exit Do
            End If

            If editPoint.Line <> lastLine - 1 Then
                IndentLevel = -1
                Exit Function
            End If
        Loop
    End Function
```

As you can seee that the functoin's name is used inside the function's body as a statement, that means the setting the value (return value) of the function. 

```
Function IndentLevel(...) as Long
  IndentLevel = ... 
End Function
```

Or more simply, you can use the `return` keyword to return the values from within the function's body
```
    Function IsPrintableFile(ByVal projItem As EnvDTE.ProjectItem) As Boolean
        Dim fileName As String
        Dim extensions As New System.Collections.Specialized.StringCollection
        ' If you add a file to your project that is of a type that can be printed, 
        '  then add the extension of that file type to this list:
        Dim exts As String() = {".cpp", ".c", ".h", ".idl", ".def", ".rgs", ".rc", ".cs", ".vb", ".xml", ".txt", ".jsl"}

        extensions.AddRange(exts)
        fileName = projItem.FileNames(1)
        If Not fileName Is Nothing Then
            Return extensions.Contains(System.IO.Path.GetExtension(fileName).ToLower())
        End If
    End Function
```

as you can see that there is a `Return` keyword that return values from the Function

## How to exit a Do, while 

you can exit a do , or a while statement by the use of 
```
Exit Do
```

here is more comprehensive code samples.

```
Do while True

  Exit Do

Loop
```

## how to convert a single length string to char

you might be tempted to write the following.

```
Chr(Left(trimText, 1)
```

however, you find that the Chr accepts a `Integer` rather than a `String`

then you might be tempted to do the following

```
CType(Left(trimText, 1), String)
```

however, this is not correct neigher, because single length String is not a character.

the right one to do is to retrieve the char by indexing operations

```
leftChar = Left(trimeText, 1).Chars(1)
```

## the loop supported by the VSEditor

```
    Private Sub PrintItemsInSelectedProject(ByVal projItems As EnvDTE.ProjectItems)
        Dim projItem As EnvDTE.ProjectItem

        For Each projItem In projItems
            If (IsPrintableFile(projItem) = True) Then
                If (projItem.IsOpen(EnvDTE.Constants.vsViewKindTextView)) Then
                    projItem.Document.PrintOut()
                Else
                    Dim doc As EnvDTE.Document

                    doc = projItem.Open(EnvDTE.Constants.vsViewKindTextView).Document
                    doc.PrintOut()
                    doc.Close(vsSaveChanges.vsSaveChangesNo)
                End If
            End If
            PrintItemsInSelectedProject(projItem.ProjectItems)
        Next
    End Sub
```

## Accordian control
> The accordion is a musical instrument invented in Europe in the beginning of the 19th century. It produces music (or rather noise) by expanding and collapsing it while pressing buttons.


> The Accordion is an ItemsControl that allows you to provide multiple panes and expand them one at a time (well, by default). The items shown are instances of AccordionItem.

References: 
[How to play the Accordian -WPF Toolkit](http://blogs.u2u.be/diederik/post/2010/02/20/How-to-play-the-Accordion-WPF-Toolkit.aspx) 


## a convenient way to use the noification way

you can write a notification object to use the RaisePropertyChanged method 

```
        private void CompareSet<T>(T value, ref T prop, params Expression<Func<T>>[] propertyExpressions) where T : class 
        {
            if (value != prop)
            {
                prop = value;
                foreach (var expression in propertyExpressions)
                {
                    RaisePropertyChanged(expression);
                }
            }
        }
```

ad how to use it ?

here is an example 

```
        public string LayoutXml
        {
            get
            {
                return _layoutXml;
            }

            set
            {
                CompareSet(value, ref _layoutXml, () => LayoutXml);
            }
        }
```


while this attempt is rather restricted in that it does not support you to use the value types, such as the "bool", or "int".. 

so it is illegal to use it like below 
```
        public bool LoadComplete
        {
            get
            {
                return _loadComplete;
            }

            set
            {
                // the code below will complains error 
                //  the type 'bool' must be a reference type in order to use it as Parameter 'T'
                CompareSet(value, ref _loadComplete, () => LoadComplete);
            }
        }
        
```

so you can leverage the Generic Compararer from the `System.Collection.Generic.EqualityCompararer<T>`, here is the code 

```
        private void CompareSet<T>(T value, ref T prop, params Expression<Func<T>>[] propertyExpressions)
        {
            if (!EqualityComparer<T>.Default.Equals(value, prop))
            {
                prop = value;
                foreach (var expression in propertyExpressions)
                {
                    RaisePropertyChanged(expression);
                }
            }
        }
```

check the [EqualityComparere<T>.Default Property](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms224763(v=vs.110).aspx) parts, which has 
> The Default property checks whether type T implements the System.IEquatable<T> interface and, if so, returns an EqualityComparer<T> that uses that implementation. Otherwise, it returns an EqualityComparer<T> that uses the overrides of Object.Equals and Object.GetHashCode provided by T.

References:  
[EqualityComparere<T>.Default Property](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms224763(v=vs.110).aspx)

## the C#'s for initialization list 

```
for (int i = _workedItems,  j = 0; i < Documents.Count && j < BatchSize; ++i, ++j)
{
}
```

operation goes in here. 

## Application.DoEvents()

while the Applications.DoEvents() is from the namespace from System.Windows.Forms, which is from the System.Windows.Forms.dll.

> NOTE: The old Application.DoEvents() method has been depricated in WPF in favor of using a Dispatcher or a Background Worker Thread to do the processing as you have described. 

why we need the  Application.DoEventgs()?

It processess all the code associated with the event, all other events in the queue, while your code handles the event, your application does not respond. For example, the windows does not repaint if other windows is dragged on top.

If you call DoEvents in your code, your application can handle the other events. For example, if you have a form that adds data to a ListBox and add DoEvents to your code, your form repaints when another window is dragged over it. If you remove DoEvents from your code, your form will not repaint until the click event handler o

References:
[Application.DoEvents Method](http://msdn.microsoft.com/zh-cn/library/system.windows.forms.application.doevents(v=vs.110).aspx)


## Nomenclature
jargon, nomenclature, terminology, argot, colloquilism, parlance

 java术语（PO/POJO/VO/BO/DAO/DTO）
 
* PO (Persistant Object) 持久对象
* VO (value object) 值对象
* BO (Business Object)  业务对象
* POJO(plain ordinary java object) 简单无规则java对象
* DAO(data access object) 数据访问对象
* DAO(data access object) 数据访问对象
* O/R Mapper 对象/关系 映射
  * 实体Model(实体模式)
  * DAL(数据访问层)
  * IDAL(接口层)
  * DALFactory(类工厂)
  * BLL(业务逻辑层)
  * BOF    Business Object Framework      业务对象框架
  * SOA    Service Orient Architecture    面向服务的设计
  * EMF    Eclipse Model Framework        Eclipse建模框架
  
Reference: 
 [java术语（PO/POJO/VO/BO/DAO/DTO）](http://blog.csdn.net/gaoyunpeng/article/details/2093211)

## Epoch time in C#

well, you may sometimes has to deal with system that works on the Unix systems, on such boxes, the time is typically represnted as the elasped time since the EPOCH (the January 1st, 1970, at Midnight);

So how to convert the Epoch Time to C#'s DateTime structure, here is how you can do this:  

```
public DateTime FromUnixTime(long unixTime)
{
    var epoch = new DateTime(1970, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, DateTimeKind.Utc);
    return epoch.AddSeconds(unixTime);
}
```

remember to use the UTC as the `DateTime.Kind` enumeration

while if you want to  convert from a existing DateTime strucutre to the value of Epoch, here is how you can do this:

```
TimeSpan t = DateTime.UtcNow - new DateTime(1970, 1, 1);
int secondsSinceEpoch = (int)t.TotalSeconds;
Console.WriteLine(secondsSinceEpoch);
```

References:

[How Do I get epoch time in C#](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/9453101/how-do-i-get-epoch-time-in-c)
[How do you convert epoch time in C#?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2883576/how-do-you-convert-epoch-time-in-c)

## Documents

the key here is `{` and the `}` notation

```
/// <summary>Uses a <see cref="FancyClass{T}" /> instance.</summary>
```

Use in a more concrete example would be like below. 

```
        /// <summary>
        /// Generate reports on layout usage data
        /// </summary>
        /// <returns><see cref="IEnumerable{LayoutReportItem}"/></returns>
        IEnumerable<LayoutReportItem> GenerateReport();
```


[How to reference generic class and method in documentation](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/532166/how-to-reference-generic-classes-and-methods-in-xml-documentation)

## convert a bool to bool?


I am not sure if this works, but you can convert from a boolean to a boolean? value? such as the following. 

```
        public static DependencyProperty StretchProperty = DependencyProperty.RegisterAttached("Stretch", typeof(bool), typeof(AccordionItemsPanel), new PropertyMetadata(false));

```

then convert to 

```

                    var isStretch = child.GetValue(StretchProperty) as bool?;
                    
```


## Accordion Controls


http://www.codeproject.com/Questions/152584/Accordion-in-wpf


## Install the SVN tools
if you try to install the tools for the SVN installer, you might need to run it twice, first time to install UI, and second from the appwiz.cpl, you can do a "repair" to repair the shell installation.





## Access to the Config server rules.

there are some undiscovered rules accessing the config servers. there are : 

1. if your name or your group ends up in the entitlement list, then the access is guarded through the entitlement assigned to full path (entitlement in each node along that path will be considered)
2. else if your name or your group ends up in the entitlement list, then if your name has ended up somewhere under the application's node. then you will have access to that node itself only, but not the parent nodes.


while the entitlement on a node consist of the following rights:
1. read
2. create
3. update
4. delete

if you don't have read access: then you won't be able to start the apps.
if you don't have create access, then you won't be able to create new nodes
if you don't have update nodes, then you won't be able to update existing nodes
if you don't have the delete access, you won't be able to delete nodes
